Social Robots and Teaching Music to Autistic Children: Myth or Reality? Alireza Taheri'*, Ali Meghdari'“~”, Minoo Alemi'”, Hamidreza Pouretemad*™, Pegah Poorgoldooz*, and Maryam Roohbakhsh* ! Social & Cognitive Robotics Laboratory, Center of Excellence in Design, Robotics, and Automation (CEDRA), Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, Iran meghdari@sharif.edu Islamic Azad University, Tehran-west Branch, Tehran, Iran > Institute for Cognitive and Brain Sciences (ICBS), Shahid Beheshti University, Tehran, Iran 4 Center for Treatment of Autistic Disorders, Tehran, Iran Abstract. Music-based therapy is an appropriate tool to facilitate multisystem development in children with autism. The focus of this study is to implement a systematic and hierarchical music-based scenario in order to teach the funda- mentals of music to children with autism through a social robot. To this end, we have programmed a NAO robot to play the xylophone and the drum. After running our designed robot-assisted clinical interventions on three high-functioning and one low functioning autistic children, fairly promising results have been observed. We indicated that the high-functioning participants have learned how to play the musical notes, short sentences, and simple rhythms. Moreover, the program affected positively on autism severity, fine movement and communication skills of the autistic subjects. The initial results observed indicate promising potentials for involving social robots in music-based autism therapy. Keywords: Music-based therapy - Xylophone - Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) - Humanoid social robot - Social and cognitive skills - Imitation 1 Introduction Music greatly influences humans and in particularly children’s emotions, moods, and feelings. Teaching music can help develop new or improve existing social, verbal and non-verbal communication skills in children [1, 2]. Children with autism have stereotyped behaviors and limited verbal communication skills [3]. Music and rhythms are effective methods to involve them in rhythmic and non-verbal communication. Nowadays, at least 12 % of all treatment of individuals with autism consist of music-based therapies [4]. Music has often been used in therapeutic sessions with children with mental and behavioral disabilities [5, 6]. In particular, there is ample evidence that shows either playing music during therapy sessions or teaching music to children with autism spec- trum disorders (ASD) can significantly increase the impact of therapy sessions [7]. In such studies or therapy sessions an instrument is either played by a human or recorded © Springer International Publishing AG 2016 A. Agah et al. (Eds.): ICSR 2016, LNAI 9979, pp. 541-550, 2016. DOI: 10.1007/978-3-3 19-47437-3_53 542 A. Taheri et al. music is played back in individual and group intervention sessions [4, 8]. The effects of music-based therapy in improving social skills of children with autism (i.e. eye contact and initiating social behaviors) have been reported in [9]. Kim et al. [2] showed improvement in joint attention, turn taking and eye contact of children with autism in active music-making interventions. In [10, 11], the studies showed a decrease in ster- eotyped behaviors and self-injuries in children with autism after running music-based interventions. Music therapy interventions have been used to increase social [12] and emotional [13] skills, verbal and gestural communication [14], and behaviors [15] of individuals with autism in individual and group modes. It should be noted that the lack of studies on improving gross and fine motor skills of autistic children through music- based interventions is still a gap in this area [4]. Recently, we have designed a comprehensive robot-assisted music-based interven- tion scenario to improve perceptuo-motor, social, and cognitive skills of ASDs and conducted it in a single subject design study. The purpose of this educational-therapy program is to teach the fundamental concepts of how to play drum and xylophone using a NAO humanoid robot as a teacher’s assistant to children with autism. Our goal is to find scientific answers for the following research questions: (1) Does a humanoid social robot have the ability to teach music (i.e. notes and rhythms) to children with autism? (b) Can a humanoid robot improve social and cognitive skills in children with autism through music education? To this end, a drum/xylophone playing humanoid robot in addition to other musical instruments, both of which are loved by children, were used. Although the use of robotics technology in different aspects of education and treatment is increasing [16-25], to the best of our knowledge utilizing a humanoid robot to systematically teaching music to children with autism is still an interesting topic. Tapus [22] has used a social robot in a music-therapy program on individuals with cognitive impairments; however the robot did not play any musical instruments in her study. It should be noted that some researchers have also used music instruments like a drum played by a robot [23] as reinforcement tools (and not necessarily as an education tool) in autism treatment. This paper presents the results and observations of a robot-assisted therapy in a single subject design study on three high-functioning and one low-functioning children with autism. The study was conducted in eleven music-based intervention sessions in Iran in order to explore the potentials of music-based games on ASDs. 2 Research Methodology 2.1 Participants Three children with high-functioning and one child with low-functioning autism enrolled in this robot-assisted research study. All of the participants were 6 years old males without any previous music background. The children’s details are describe in Table |. Social Robots and Teaching Music to Autistic Children 543 Table 1. Our participants’ details # Abbreviation Autism severity | Pl _High-Functioning autism, with hyperactivity 2 P2 _High-Functioning autism 3 P3 High-Functioning autism, with verbal deficits 4 P4 _Low-Functioning autism with poor verbal skills 2.2 Humanoid Robot The humanoid robot used in this research is the NAO H-21 robot made by Aldebaran Company [26]. The capabilities of NAO as well as the suitable programming interface of this robot make it a commonly used commercial robot for autism research [27-29]. We have renamed the robot to the Iranian boy’s name, “Nima’’, during our studies. 2.3. Musical Instruments Having noticed that when the instrument sound is simpler and more pleasant the patient will be deeper involved and the interventions will be more effective, we have selected a drum and a xylophone for the robot to play in our intervention sessions. 2.4 Technical Design of the Games We have designed two general music games to involve children in interventions: (a) playing a real drum/xylophone in Robot-Child or Robot-Child-Therapist/Parent imita- tion turn taking games and (b) playing a Kinect based virtual xylophone on the screen. Play the Drum/Xylophone: Our robot has been programmed to be able to play the drum/xylophone. A configurable user friendly GUI! as well as some rhythm patterns by Choregraphe [26] software have been developed in order to enable the robot playing the instruments either manually by operators/psychologists or automatically in a real-time situation. The robot is able to play different rhythms and notes with its right/left arm. Virtual Xylophone: We have developed a Kinect based virtual xylophone containing 8 colored bars programmed by C# WPF. In this game, the player can see the music bars on the screen. The participant can hit the bars using colored mallets or the palm of their hands. The sounds of one octave from C4 (261.6 Hz) to C5 (523.2 Hz) are heard when hitting these bars. We have used the Toub.Sound.Midi Library in order to generate music notes with the computer. Graphical User Interface . 544 A. Taheri et al. 2.5 Experimental Setup Our study was conducted in the Social & Cognitive Robotics Laboratory at Sharif University of Technology with four autistic children during eleven sessions in the pres- ence of a human therapist (and sometimes their parents), a humanoid robot, and a robot operator. Time duration of each session was 20-30 min. The games’ instructions were described by the robot and/or the human therapist before each game. The Wizard of OZ (WOZ) style robot control has been used in this study, and most of the time the robot operator sent appropriate real-time voice/motor commands to the robot after seeing the child’s performance. Our single subject design study contains a Baseline, Pre-Test, Post-Test, and Follow-up Test (four weeks after the last session) all in the absence of the Nima robot. Because no control group was utilized in this paper, our focus was on comparing each participant’s skills/behaviors with his previous behaviors based on the assessment tools (which will be introduced in Subsect. 2.7). 2.6 Interventions Protocol The purpose of designing a comprehensive music-based robot-assisted intervention scenario is teaching the fundamentals of music, decreasing impairments and improving/ generalizing social and cognitive skills as well as fine/gross movement skills of children with autism spectrum disorders. Our music games are based on active music-based therapies which included imitating the robot in playing the drum/xylophone, rhythm perception, working memory games, teaching the notes, involving in turn-taking group games, reading/playing music sentences, and finally generalizing the learned knowledge to another instrument (i.e. the virtual xylophone). The designed therapeutic games have the potentials to improve auditory perception, perceptuo-motor activities, vision skills, mental development, and social and communication skills. 2.7 Assessment Tools To answer the research questions of this study, two measuring instruments have been used each for four times (on Baseline, Pre-, Post-, and Follow up tests). (1) Stambak’s Rhythmic Structures Reproduction test [30] which is a test containing 21 (easy to hard level) rhythmic tasks that the participant should reproduce the patterns through a drum after hearing (and not seeing) them performed by the therapist. (2) Gilliam Autism Rating Scale (GARS) [31], a questionnaire for estimating autism severity, with 56 questions which covers four subscales: Stereotyped Behaviors, Communication, Social Interactions, and Developmental Disturbances. Social Robots and Teaching Music to Autistic Children 545 3 Results and Discussion At the first session, the Nima robot was introduced to the participants. The main purpose of this session was to familiarization/desensitization the participants to the class envi- ronment as well as observe the child’s tendency to start/keep communication with Nima. It should be noted that music was not taught during the first session. After that, following the designed educational protocol, music was taught step-by- step by the robot during the rest of the sessions. The selected snapshot of the intervention sessions is presented in Fig. 1. Fig. 1. Snapshot of the robot-assisted music-based intervention sessions Music was a happy and enjoyable activity for all of the participants. The existence of the robot itself considerably increased the motivation of the children to use their capabilities to involve their sensorimotor mechanisms. A short description of observa- tions for the participants are presented in the following. Pl: The psychologists reported noteworthy improvement in his social skills, attention, and the ability to learn. The music learning process occurred for Benyamin and the presence of the robot was the reason for this observation P2: P2’s performance was very similar to typically developing children. Although P2 is very resistance to education classes in his real life, he did not show any malad- aptive behaviors in our course. It seemed the child felt secure and relaxed during the sessions P3: Improvement in Radvin’s verbal skills was reported by his mother. In comparison to the other two high-functioning children, Radvin’s weakness at the first sessions 546 A. Taheri et al. was his lack of expressing/identifying some colors; fortunately, this deficit was resolved by the last sessions P4: He understood none of the instructions at the beginning of the program. Improve- ment in his instruction perception, attention, and understanding what happened in the class was the positive note occurred for P4 over time. He usually played randomly on the real xylophone bars instead of correctly imitating the robot/parent during the turn-taking games; however he was able to acceptably imitate the robot switching hands in the last four sessions. We observed that P4’s stereotyped behaviors (especially his fluttering fingers) decreased and his verbal skills increased. Music is very effective in decreasing the stereotyped behaviors of chil- dren with autism [10, 11]. 3.1 Stambak Rhythmic Structures Reproduction Test To investigate the participants’ improvement in rhythm perception during this time, the Stambak’s Rhythm Reproduction Test has been run on the autistic subjects. The results of this test in the Pre- and Post-Test are presented in Table 2. We indicated that all of the three high-functioning participants show improvement in playing rhythm which means music learning has occurred for these subjects. In [32], the Stambak rhythm test has been used to show the music improvement of typically developing subjects after running a human-based music-therapy program. Table 2. Stambak’s Rhythm Test results in Pre-Test and Post-Test # Abbreviation Scores of the Stambak’s Rhythm Test Pre-Test Post Test | | Pl | 18 19 Z | P2 | 6 13 3 P3 11 14 4 P4 0 4 Meanwhile, P4 was unable to do any of the rhythm tasks in Pre-Test; however, in the Post-Test he was able to play tasks #1 to #4, each in his second try with the help of counting (the number of played hits) and saying “Baam-Baam”’. For the high-functioning autistic children, our main goal was observing the trend of their music learning pace. Rhythm perception for the three high functioning subject have been improved. From our observations, we hypothesized that there is no obvious differ- ence between the music learning process/progress rate of high-functioning ASDs and TDs’; they can read/play the notes and simple musical sentences and the progress rate for the spent three months was really promising. Moreover, we observed noticeable progress in all four children’s fine hands imitation as well as using two hands consecu- tively, which they all had problems with in the first sessions. ; Typically Developing. Social Robots and Teaching Music to Autistic Children 547 One of the promising observations from the high-functioning subjects’ performance in this study was their following, curiosity, and questioning increased in the presence of the robot. The children used as many opportunities as they could to push Nima to speak and ask him questions. 3.2 GARS Questionnaire The results of GARS are presented in Fig. 2. We observed a decrease in the autism severity of all four participants from Pre-Test to Post-Test. A detailed assessment of the GARS questionnaire showed us improvement occurred in 3 subscales: stereotyped behaviors, communication, and social interaction for two of the participants, Pl and P4 from Pre-Test to Post-Test. P3 progressed in stereotyped behaviors and communication, while P2 showed improvement in communication and social interaction. The interesting point of the GARS results is the progress of all of the subjects in subscale “communi- cation’. This finding is in line with our therapists’ reports during the intervention sessions. The existence of Nima, as an attractive communication tool, positively affected the communication skills of the children. Comparison of GARS overall scores between the Post-Test and Follow up-Test shows the retention as well as the stability of the sessions’ impact on autistic children. Similarly, improvement of autistic children in different social and communication skills after music-based therapies or robot-assisted clinical interventions have also been confirmed in [12—15, 20, 21, 29]. GARS Scores 108 108 EEE eT 110 100 z 90 — 7) ® Y 80 78 viv = <x 70 6A 60 63 63 55 55 ————==———_3 54 50 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 #+15 16 Baseline Pre-Test Week Number Post-Test Follow-up —e—P1 —@—P2 —e—P3 —e—P4 Fig. 2. GARS overall scores (autism severity) of the participants in Baseline, Pre-Test, Post-Test, and Follow up Tests. 548 A. Taheri et al. 3.3. Limitations and Future Works In order to check for the effectiveness of the treatment, a larger sample size is needed, ideally with male and female children and a control group. Moreover, one of the greatest limitations in these kinds of studies is accessing valid tools which have the potential to accurately measure/assess children’s behavior. Unfortunately, because of small number of the autistic participants in this study, no scientific statistical analysis could be applied on the data. To generalize the mentioned findings in robot-assisted music-based therapy, further research with more autistic subjects is needed. 4 Conclusion Through the designed music-based scenario package, we wanted to explore the potential of music-based intervention on ASD’s improvement in motor, communication skills as well as learning music. The robot does have the ability to teach the fundamentals of music to children with autism. We also saw improvement in fine hands imitation, using both hands in order, and rhythm identification for all of the participants. The high-func- tioning subjects can now read/play the notes and simple musical sentences and their progress was quite acceptable during the three months interventions. In the case of the low-functioning subject, improvement in verbal skills and a decrease in stereotyped behaviors have been indicated. Additionally, the GARS showed that the autism severity of all of the participants were reduced after the robot-assisted intervention sessions. Acknowledgement. Our sincere appreciation is extended to the “Cognitive Sciences and Technologies Council of Iran” for their financial support through research grant # 103. We also acknowledge the “Center for the Treatment of Autistic Disorders (CTAD)” and its psychologists for their technical support and cooperation in participating in the clinical interventions with the children with autism spectrum disorders. References 1. Wan, C.Y., Bazen, L., Baars, R., Libenson, A., Zipse, L., Zuk, J., Schlaug, G.: Auditory- motor mapping training as an intervention to facilitate speech output in non-verbal children with autism: a proof of concept study. PLoS ONE 6(9), e25505 (2011) 2. Kim, J., Wigram, T., Gold, C.: The effects of improvisational music therapy on joint attention behaviors in autistic children: a randomized controlled study. J. Autism Dev. Disord. 38(9), 1758-1766 (2008) 3. Pouretemad, H.: “Diagnosis and treatment of joint attention in autistic children”, (in Persian). Arjmand Book, Tehran (2011) 4. Srinivasan, S.M., Bhat, A.N.: A review of “music and movement” therapies for children with autism: embodied interventions for multisystem development. Frontiers Integr. Neurosci. 7, 22 (2013) 5. Roper, N.: Melodic intonation therapy with young children with apraxia. Bridges 1(8), 1-7 (2003) 10. ie [2; 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 1 20. 21. 2. Social Robots and Teaching Music to Autistic Children 549 - Boso, M., Emanuele, E., Minazzi, V., Abbamonte, M., Politi, P.: Effect of long-term interactive music therapy on behavior profile and musical skills in young adults with severe autism. J. Altern. Complement. Med. 13(7), 709-712 (2007) . Lim, H.A., Draper, E.: The effects of music therapy incorporated with applied behavior analysis verbal behavior approach for children with autism spectrum disorders. J. Music Ther. 48(4), 532 (2011) . Corbett, B.A., Shickman, K., Ferrer, E.: Brief report: the effects of Tomatis sound therapy on language in children with autism. J. Autism Dev. Disord. 38(3), 562-566 (2008) . Stephens, C.E.: Spontaneous imitation by children with autism during a repetitive musical play routine. Autism 12(6), 645-671 (2008) Lanovaz, M.J., Fletcher, S.E., Rapp, J.T.: Identifying stimuli that alter immediate and subsequent levels of vocal stereotypy a further analysis of functionally matched stimulation. Behav. Modif. 33(5), 682-704 (2009) Wood, S.: A study of the effects of music on attending behavior of children with autistic-like syndrome (1991) Pasiali, V.: The use of prescriptive therapeutic songs in a home-based environment to promote social skills acquisition by children with autism: three case studies. Music Ther. Perspect. 22(1), 11-20 (2004) Katagiri, J.: The effect of background music and song texts on the emotional understanding of children with autism. J. Music Ther. 46(1), 15—31 (2009) Simpson, K., Keen, D.: Music interventions for children with autism: narrative review of the literature. J. Autism Dev. Disord. 41(11), 1507-1514 (2011) Carnahan, C., Basham, J., Musti-Rao, S.: A low-technology strategy for increasing engagement of students with autism and significant learning needs. Exceptionality 17(2), 76— 87 (2009) Taheri, A.R., Alemi, M., Meghdari, A., PourEtemad, H.R., Basiri, N.M.: Social robots as assistants for autism therapy in Iran: Research in progress. In: 2014 Second RSI/ISM International Conference on Robotics and Mechatronics (ICRoM), pp. 760-766. IEEE, October 2014 Boccanfuso, L., O’ Kane, J.M.: CHARLIE: an adaptive robot design with hand and face tracking for use in autism therapy. Int. J. Soc. Robot. 3(4), 337-347 (2011) Meghdari, A., Alemi, M., Ghazisaedy, M., Taheri, A. R., Karimian, A., Zandvakili, M.: Applying robots as teaching assistant in EFL classes at Iranian middle-schools. In: The 2013 International Conference on Education and Modern’ Educational Technologies (EMET-2013), Venice, Italy, September 2013. http://www.europement.com. Accessed Alemi, M., Meghdari, A., Ghazisaedy, M.: The impact of social robotics on L2 learners’ anxiety and attitude in English vocabulary acquisition. Int. J. Soc. Robot. 7(4), 523-535 (2015) Scassellati, B., Admoni, H., Mataric, M.: Robots for use in autism research. Annu. Rev. Biomed. Eng. 14, 275-294 (2012) Kajopoulos, J.,. Wong, A.H.Y., Yuen, A.W.C., Dung, T.A., Kee, T.Y., Wykowska, A.: Robot- assisted training of joint attention skills in children diagnosed with autism. In: Tapus, A., André, E., Martin, J-.C., Ferland, F., Ammi, M.(eds.) ICSR 2015. LNCS, vol. 9388, pp. 296— 305. Springer, Heidelberg (2015) Tapus, A.: The role of the physical embodiment of a music therapist robot for individuals with cognitive impairments: longitudinal study. In: Virtual Rehabilitation International Conference, 2009, pp. 203-203. IEEE, June 2009 550 2s 24. 2S 26. Dd 20 29. 30. Ls B25 A. Taheri et al. Robins, B., Dautenhahn, K., Dickerson, P.: From isolation to communication: a case study evaluation of robot assisted play for children with autism with a minimally expressive humanoid robot. In: Second International Conferences on Advances in Computer-Human Interactions, 2009, ACHI 2009, pp. 205-211. IEEE, February 2009 Boccanfuso, L., Barney, E., Foster, C., Ahn, Y.A., Chawarska, K., Scassellati, B., Shic, F.: Emotional robot to examine different play patterns and affective responses of children with and without ASD. In: 2016 11th ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction (HRD), pp. 19-26. IEEE, March 2016 Alemi, M., Meghdari, A., Mahboub Basiri, N., Taheri, A.: The Effect of Applying Humanoid Robots as Teacher Assistants to Help Iranian Autistic Pupils Learn English as a Foreign Language (2015) Robotics, A.: The NAO robot (2013). Available at: bttp:/Ivnvw. aldebaran-roboticscomteni. Accessed 4 Sep 2013 Mavadati, S.M., Feng, H., Gutierrez, A., Mahoor, M.H.: Comparing the gaze responses of children with autism and typically developed individuals in human-robot interaction. In: 2014 14th IEEE-RAS International Conference on Humanoid Robots (Humanoids), pp. 1128- 1133. IEEE, November 2014 Shamsuddin, S., Yussof, H., Ismail, L.I., Mohamed, S., Hanapiah, F.A., Zahari, N.I.: Initial response in HRI-a case study on evaluation of child with autism spectrum disorders interacting with a humanoid robot Nao. Procedia Eng. 41, 1448-1455 (2012) Taheri, A., Alemi, M., Meghdari, A., Pouretemad, H., Basiri, N.M., Poorgoldooz, P.: Impact of humanoid social robots on treatment of a pair of Iranian autistic twins. In: Tapus, A., André, E., Martin, J.-C., Ferland, F., Ammi, M. (eds.) ICSR 2015. LNCS (LNAI), vol. 9388, pp. 623-632. Springer, Heidelberg (2015). doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-25554-5_62 Gardner, H.: Children’s duplication of rhythmic patterns. J. Res. Music Educ. 19(3), 355— 360 (1971) Gilliam, J. E.: Gilliam autism rating scale: examiner’s manual. Pro-ed (1995) Noor Mohammadi, F.: The effect of the Orff music on improving rhythm structuring. (in Persian), Developmental Psychology Quarterly, Tehran (2003) 