Technology, Knowledge and Learning https://doi.org/10.1007/s10758-023-09681-7 ORIGINAL RESEARCH ® Check for updates Social Stories for Promoting Social Communication with Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder Using a Humanoid Robot: Step-by-Step Study Vinicius Silva’ - Ana Paula Pereira” - Filomena Soares'® - Celina P. Ledo! - Andrea Jurdi? - Jodo Sena Esteves' - Juliana Hertzberg? Accepted: 26 July 2023 © The Author(s) 2023 Abstract Technological tools are being used in support sessions with children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), producing a high level of encouragement and engagement in these indi- viduals. A four-step study comprising a focus group session, thinking aloud sessions, an online questionnaire, and a pilot study was conducted. First, a focus group session was conducted with professionals (n=10) with different backgrounds that support children with ASD on a daily basis. Considering the outputs from the focus group, thinking aloud sessions with two specialists and an online questionnaire with 138 participants were con- ducted. Finally, a pilot study with four children with ASD was performed in order to test the constraints of the system. The goal of this article is to present findings concerning the design of social stories in a storytelling game that uses a new object with playware tech- nology (OPT) as tangible interface with children with ASD. The storytelling game allows promoting the recognition of emotions in a triadic setup involving a robot, a child, and a professional or researcher. The key issue in this activity is to find the adequacy of the sce- narios. The participants pointed out the main aspects to take into account in the develop- ment of the storytelling scenarios. New designs of the story scenarios were developed and the final design of the OPT was elaborated. The pilot study allowed to conclude that the children understood the mechanics of the games and successfully interacted with the new OPT. Keywords Human-robot interaction - Autism spectrum disorder - Object with playware technology bx] Filomena Soares fsoares @dei.uminho.pt Algoritmi Research Center, University of Minho, Azurém, Guimaraes, Portugal Research Centre on Education, Institute of Education, University of Minho, Braga, Portugal Research Federal University of Sao Paulo, Santos, Brazil Published online: 18 August 2023 2) Springer V. Silva et al. 1 Introduction Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a developmental disability defined by the diagnostic criteria that include deficits in social communication and social interaction, and the pres- ence of restricted and repetitive patterns of behaviour, interests, or activities that can persist throughout life (American Psychiatric Association, 2013a). Furthermore, individuals with ASD show difficulty in generalization, in transferring knowledge to a context other than the one in which the knowledge was acquired (Myles, 2013). Due to the diversity and speci- ficity of symptoms, professionals have encountered some difficulties in developing effec- tive support methods. In order to mitigate these individuals’ impairments and to improve the support process, in recent years research has been carried out focusing on the use of robots (Pérez-Vazquez et al., 2020), mechanical components or interfaces in the interaction with individuals with ASD. Individuals diagnosed with ASD have been shown to have a great affinity with technological devices (Dautenhahn & Werry, 2004; Mwangi et al., 2018; Tapus et al., 2012), including individuals who are not likely or willing to interact socially with their peers, parents, and professionals, among others. Moreover, improvements were observed in social behaviours such as imitation, eye gaze, and motor skills when interact- ing with such devices. Most research in the literature focuses on the use of social robots to interact with individuals with ASD, showing that robots produce a high level of encourage- ment and engagement in these persons. The physical appearance of the social robots used in the literature varies greatly (Catlin & Blamires, 2019), from four-wheeled mobile robots (Ferrari et al., 2009), and animal-like robots (Breazeal, 2000; Sosnowski et al., 2006), to humanoid robots (Costa et al., 2015a; Silva et al., 2017). More recently, researchers are using social robots with a humanoid design, as they allow for pronounced generalisation potential, particularly in tasks of imitation and emotion recognition (Begum, et al., 2015; Costa, 2014). In addition to the use of social robots, Objects with Playware Technology (OPT) have been applied in support sessions for children with ASD. Lund, Dam Pedersen, and Beck (2009) define Playware as the use of intelligent hardware and software, which can be used to transfer knowledge while creating playful experiences. The use of OPT that are able to react to players’ actions in an appropriate way and consequently create a dynamic interaction between the user and other players can provide an exceptional occa- sion to quantify behaviour. There are a few works on the use of OPT with children with ASD. Lund, Dam Pedersen, and Beck (2009) conducted an experiment where interac- tive tiles were used as a modular robotic OPT with participants with ASD. These tiles were designed to be flexible in both set-up and activity building for the end-user. One of the activities played by children with ASD consisted in arranging the tiles according to their neighbour tile colour in order to produce new colours. There were three main tiles with the primary colours red, green and blue that never changed their colour. Then, other tiles were connected to the main ones. These tiles would get the same colour as the main one or a new colour would be shown if the tile was connected, for example, between two of the main tiles. The authors collected several variables such as the num- ber of tiles used during the experiment, the average and maximum number of clusters (2 or more tiles assembled) created by the user, among others, and fed these features into a feed forward neural network in order to understand whether possible differences in criteria scores can be used to recognize any specific behaviour pattern—trying to recognize the individual child. Although the data was small, the network achieved an accuracy of 88% in recognizing a specific child’s play pattern, which led the authors to D) Springer Social Stories for Promoting Social Communication with Children... conclude that the results of the experiment with children with ASD offer an interesting new direction for research: investigating playware as play tools for cognitive challenged children, giving children a playful experience and investigating the playful interaction to provide insights (and possibly a diagnosis). In general, games concerning the learning of social emotional skills (e.g. imitation and recognition of emotions) are played during supporting sessions with children with ASD in a Human—Robot-Interaction (HRI) scenario (Costa et al., 2015; Pennisi et al., 2016; Soares et al., 2019). However, in more traditional support sessions, professionals often use storyboards (Kokina & Kern, 2010) as one of the tools to help foster social skills in individuals with ASD. According to Gray and Garand (1993): “a social story describes a situation, skill, or concept in terms of relevant social cues, perspectives, and common responses in a specifically defined style and format’. Therefore, a social story can be, for example, a powerful tool to decrease inappropriate behaviour (Scattone et al., 2006). Thus, storyboards are usually focused on portraying one of the following topics (Social Stories & Comic Strip Conversations, 2021): daily living skills, unex- pected events, transitions, adolescent skills, and social situations. Most children with ASD have difficulty in processing auditory information due to alterations in the central auditory processing (Ocak et al., 2018). Thus, they have dif- ficulty in verbal discrimination, reacting in a hyper-or-hypo-sensitive way to sounds. As vision can be one of the strongest skills of children with ASD (de Lima & Levy, 2015), a visual support can be fundamental to help children with ASD to understand requests and tasks. Therefore, storyboards are provided with visual cues. Indeed, in general, the literature has some guidelines on how to build storyboards portraying a social story, often used as a traditional supporting tool by professionals (Kokina & Kern, 2010). However, there is little or no guidance on how to develop sto- ryboards focused on training affective skills in an HRI scenario where the robot is the main character telling the story. One of the few works that developed and successfully evaluated (with a large sample) a storyboard tool during an HRI found significant differ- ences in the learning of emotional skills in children who interacted with the robot com- pared to children who followed traditional methods of support (Soares et al., 2019). The work uses visual cues in the form of physical cards showing the story scenario while the robot tells the story. Additionally, another set of cards was given to a child for he/she to choose the correct affective state of the character at the end of the story. One of the limitations found in the study was the difference in attention span. This may be due to the many things that each child has to focus on at the same time, namely the robot, the physical card that shows the story scenario, and the cards with the answers. The research team proposed a new initial approach of using both OPT and social robots with the goal of promoting social interaction with children with ASD (Silva et al., 2018). It consists of a hybrid approach where an OPT device is to be used as an add-on to an HRI with a robot that is capable of displaying facial expressions. To the authors’ knowledge there is no research considering the use of OPT as an add-on to social robots. With this setup, the OPT device will provide visual support cues during the interaction. The present work consists in defining the essential features of an OPT device, as well as the main characteristics of story images, and in describing how the interaction between a robot, the OPT and a child should be conducted. A four-step study was conducted using both qualitative (a focus group and think- aloud sessions) and quantitative (an online questionnaire and a pilot study) research methodologies. D) Springer pes Ye -— Fig. 1 The different facial expressions displayed by the robot ZECA: a anger, b fear, c happiness, d sur- prise, and e sadness (Soares et al., 2019) > a > i" One of the contributions of the present work consists in presenting the necessary aspects to take into account when designing storyboards for an HRI scenario, namely by using the focus group method to promote discussion among specialists and, when possible, corrobo- rate the findings with the literature. Additionally, by combining the outputs of the focus group and the think-aloud sessions, innovative insights will be produced about the design features of the OPT that will be used in the interaction process with a robot and a child, namely its format and modes of feedback, among others. Considering these insights, new story scenarios for the OPT device were developed and evaluated through an online ques- tionnaire and a pilot study with children with ASD. The goal of the pilot study was to verify the main constraints of this new approach and evaluate the adequacy of the scenarios of a storytelling game during supporting sessions with children with ASD. In addition to this Introduction, this paper is organized into four more sections: Sect. 2 presents the scope of the present work; Sect. 3 shows the methods employed; Sect. 4 dis- cusses the results obtained; the conclusions and future work are addressed in Sect. 5. 2 Scope The present work is part of a larger project whose main goal is to develop and use new interactive tools to support sessions with children with ASD (HomePage - Robotica Autismo, 2018). The current approach uses the humanoid robot ZECA (Zeno Engaging Children with Autism) that is able of displaying facial expressions (Fig. 1) due to several servomotors on its face and a special material, Frubber, which has a similar feel to human skin. The main idea is to employ a hybrid approach that uses a robotic platform (Fig. 1) and OPT to promote social emotional skills among children with ASD (Silva et al., 2019). One of the serious games developed was the storytelling game, which consists of the robot tell- ing a story and, at the end the child has to identify how the robot felt in that scenario of the story. Thus, it is important to define the main characteristics of this new OPT device, to g) Springer Social Stories for Promoting Social Communication with Children... Focus Group Think Aloud Sessions Online Questionnaire Pilot Study Fig. 2 Four-step study consisting of: a focus group session, think-aloud sessions, an online questionnaire, and a pilot study design the image scenarios, and to do a pilot study of this solution to find the acceptance of the system by children with ASD. 3 Methods With the present study, the research group aimed at evaluating the adequacy of a set of objects and scenarios used for emotion recognition in threefold activity (involving a robot, a child, and a researcher or therapist) with children with ASD. The scenarios under analy- sis were created and adapted by the research team according to a set of stories created by the same research team (Soares et al., 2019). Each scenario/story describes a situation alluding to a certain emotion, such as joy, sadness, fear, surprise or anger. Different research techniques were considered to evaluate the scenarios and the role of the new OPT device together with the robot during the interaction process with a child. A four- step study (Fig. 2) was conducted. It included a focus group, think-aloud sessions, an online questionnaire, and a pilot study. The focus group intends to explore and debate the opinions of the professional participants about the game scenarios, the OPT device, and the role of the robot. With the think-aloud, spe- cialists must verbalize their thinking process. To safeguard the validity of the verbalizations, we took into account two guidelines: (1) use a neutral instruction to think aloud that did not request specific types of verbalizations; (2) practice the think-aloud during a session to allow participants to become familiar with verbalizing their thoughts. The participating experts in this study defined the appearance, interaction, and ergonomics of the final OPT prototype, as well as validated the final storytelling scenarios. The online questionnaire aims at validating G) Springer V. Silva et al. the image scenarios that were developed following the guidelines of the focus group and the think-aloud sessions with the stories. Finally, the pilot study is used to detect the constraints of the system and to verify if it allows implementing a procedure that makes the children able to interact in a comfortable and natural way during a support session. As regards the focus group, think-aloud sessions, and the online questionnaire, the partici- pants in these activities or, in the case of children, their parents/tutors signed consents. During the study, besides the informed consents signed by parents/tutors of the children who participated, all other ethical procedures involving these children were considered, namely the co-approval by the Subcommittee on Ethics for Life and Health Sciences (SECVS) of the University of Minho Ethics Committee (CEUM), and the school where the experi- ments took place. The following subsections detail how the different steps of the study were developed. 3.1 The Focus Group Focus group is considered the most appropriate data collection technique to accomplish the research goals set for this study. This technique enables the researcher to analyse a topic in depth and emphasises the interaction between participants and their opinions (Amado, 2014; Stewart & Shamdasani, 2014). The goals were defined for the focus group study according to three main categories: the game scenarios, the OPT device, and the role of the robot. As for the scenarios, the goals were: (1) To analyse the amount of stimuli; (2) To analyse the spatial location of the elements of each scenario; (3) To analyse the adequacy of the colour palette, and (4) To define the physical appearance of the main character. Regarding the OPT device, the following goals were established: (1) To define possible forms of manipulation for the OPT; (2) To define the kind of feedback most suitable for children with ASD, and (3) To define the size and shape of the OPT device. Finally, it was defined what would be the robot role during the interaction. Participants were intentionally selected to maximize the detail of knowledge about the phenomenon under study (Stake, 2010). A group of 10 participants integrated the focus group, having been selected because they are representative of professionals who support children, aged six to nine years, with ASD, in Portugal. Participants were selected accord- ing to the following intentionality criteria: professionals with different backgrounds in Table 1 Characteristics of the professionals ID Age (years) Sex Profession Expertise (years) Pl 51 Female Early childhood special education 11 p2 31 Female Psychologist P3 34 Male Psychologist P4 53 Female Occupational therapist 38 P5 32 Female Speech pathologist 11 P6 45 Female Special teacher 18 P7 40 Female Special teacher 5 P8& 58 Female Special teacher 13 P9 39 Female Special teacher 9 P10 58 Female Speech pathologist 38 D) Springer Social Stories for Promoting Social Communication with Children... Fig.3 The two sample images of the scenario representing the emotion anger. In scenario A (left), the background and the characters are based on real-world environments. Scenario B (right) has a more car- toon-like appearance terms of training area (psychologists, occupational therapists, speech pathologists, teach- ers, and kindergarten teachers); who had at least five years of experience in supporting children with ASD; and who were both interested and available to participate in the focus group (cf. Table 1). An interview script was prepared in order to establish a set of topics to be discussed in the focus group. Three types of questions were defined: (1) general questions, to introduce the study to the participants—its goals and dynamics, and to promote members acquaint- ance; (2) specific questions, directed to the three categories under analysis (scenarios, OPT device, and the robot role in the interaction), addressing topics such as the adequacy of the scenarios and the amount of stimuli, the adequacy of the spatial location of the distinct elements that integrate the scenarios, type and adequacy of the colour palette used in the scenarios, forms of manipulation, type of feedback, format of the new OPT, the role of the robot and how the interaction should be conducted; and (3) closing questions allowing a reflection on the main ideas and a space for additional thoughts to share (for instance, participants were asked about aspects they found relevant but not included in the discus- sion topics, and also about advice and suggestions they found relevant to share with the researchers). A total of 15 scenarios portraying different emotions were projected for participants to analyse; each scenario contained two sample images. For each scenario, two different sam- ple images were used as background. One of them, identified as A, is based on real-world environments. The general appearance of the other image, identified as B, is more cartoon- like. Figure 3 shows the two sample images of the scenario representing anger. After each projection, participants were asked to analyse the dimensions related to the scenarios. Questions related to the OPT device and the role of the robot were also prompted to the participants, following the goals of each of the three main categories in the focus group study. Table 2 Think-aloud experts ID A Professi E characteristics ge (years) Sex rofession xpertise (years) Al 52 Female Special education 30 A2 43 Male Industrial designer 14 G) Springer V. Silva et al. After identifying the professionals who met the criteria for inclusion in the focus group, an email was sent with its goals, as well as details of the organization such as date, place, and time. A request for informed, clarified, and free consent containing the ethical pro- cedures to be followed in the focus group session, as well as a statement of acceptance regarding the audio and video recording, were also sent to all participants. The focus group took place at the university where the authors of this paper work, in a room with adequate conditions in terms of comfort, light, and temperature. A moderator assisted by a co-facil- itator who is trained in this kind of data collection technique, facilitating and ensuring that all topics were covered, conducted the focus group, which lasted 90 min. Data were transcribed verbatim and crossed-referenced with notes taken throughout the focus group session. The analysis process comprised: (a) a pre-analysis stage, in which the data were observed, heard, and transcribed; (b) an exploration stage, in which the data were coded into previously defined analysis categories according to the study goals; and (c) an analysis stage, in which the thematic units were identified. The defined analysis categories were coherent with the goals of the three main categories (the scenarios, the OPT device, and the role of the robot): (1) amount of stimuli; (2) spatial location; (3) colour palette; (4) forms of manipulation and interaction; (5) type of feedback; (6) size and format of the OPT; and (7) physical appearance of the main character. 3.2 Think-Aloud Sessions Three think-aloud sessions were conducted with two experts (Al and A2) with back- grounds in early childhood special education, namely Autism Spectrum Disorder, and mul- timedia and product design (Table 2). The participants of the think-aloud sessions gave their consent to participate in this study. The sessions were conducted with the main goal of defining the appearance, interaction, and ergonomics of the final OPT prototype, as well as validating the final storytelling scenarios. In these sessions, the participants were pre- sented with the sketches prepared for each scenario with the respective storyline following the main conclusions of the focus group study. The participants were invited to give their impressions of each image scenario in terms of (1) amount of stimuli; (2) spatial location of the elements of each scenario; (3) adequacy of the colour palette. While the profession- als were thinking aloud, the moderator and the co-facilitator remained silent, thus avoiding interrupting their thought patterns. The verbal reflections/responses of the participants were collected, and the data were ana- lysed following the same three main categories previously defined. In addition, the designs of the OPT device were developed following the reflections made by the participants of the think-aloud sessions. This was an iterative process that culminated in the final design of the OPT device and scenarios. 3.3 The Online Questionnaire An anonymous online questionnaire was administered to a total of 138 volunteer participants, 69 of whom were adults (20-67 years old, 69.6% female and 30.4% male) and the remaining typically developing children (7-11 years old, 56.5% female and 43.5% male) (Silva et al., 2020). The text and the image of each story, from a total of 15 stories, were randomly pre- sented in the questionnaire. Participants had to read the story, observe the image, and select the emotion (anger, fear, happiness, sadness, or surprise) that corresponded to the story. The D) Springer Social Stories for Promoting Social Communication with Children... Camera B 5 2 afes VU @& —_ ie oc Wg Yo © o* x 6 Child Camera A Fig.4 The experimental design used during the experiments in a triadic configuration: child-robot- researcher purpose of the online questionnaire was to validate the image scenarios that were developed following the guidelines of the focus group and the think- aloud sessions. The time required to complete the online questionnaire varied according to who answered, adult or child, but did not exceed 10 min on average. 3.4 The Pilot Study A small pilot study was carried out in a school setting with 4 children with ASD to evaluate the approach obtained in the described four-step study. The selected children were between 6 and 10 years old (M=8.75; SD=0.96). Although ASD is more prevalent in boys (Christensen et al., 2016), the selected sample has a gender-bal- anced representation). All children that participated in the study are verbal but their attempts to initiate interactions and make friends are difficult and typically unsuccessful (Level | of severity levels, DSM5, 2013). The participants are high functioning according to their diagno- sis. A total of 3 sessions were performed per child. The pilot study was conducted in a triadic setup, 1.e., child-robot-researcher. The sessions were recorded from two points of view as depicted in Fig. 4. This layout was proposed to allow a basis for comparison between participants across ses- sions, since the experiments were conducted in an unconstrained environment (in this case a school) but familiar to the child. The selected task was the storytelling game, in which robot ZECA tells randomly selected stories among 15 social stories and the participant has to identify the emotion of the main actor, 1.e., the robot. The same scenarios that were designed with the input of the focus group and the think-aloud sessions were used in these stories. As the robot starts telling a story, an image representing the social context of the story is simultaneously shown as a visual cue. Then, the child is prompted to answer how the robot felt in that scenario. The child selects the answer by tilting back and forward the OPT device, scrolling through the facial expres- sions (common emoji) displayed by the OPT, and touching the image. At the same, when the answer is selected, a positive or negative reinforcement is presented by ZECA and the devel- oped OPT. The type of reinforcement is configurable in both the robot and the OPT according to the child’s preferences. In this pilot study, the types of reinforcements used were the same D) Springer V. Silva et al. for three children (robot: verbal+ movement+ sound; OPT: visual+haptic) and different for one child (robot: verbal + movement; OPT: visual + haptic). The aim of the pilot study was to detect the constraints of the system and verify if it allows implementing a procedure that makes the children able to interact in a comfortable and natural way during a support session. The videos of the experiments were coded in terms of frequency and time in order to quantify different behaviours. For example, the frequency and the time that the children looked at the OPT device was recorded. The number of times that children needed help and the number of wrong usages of the OPT were counted. Additionally, the number of correct, incorrect, and unanswered answers, together with the total number of robot prompts dur- ing the sessions, were recorded. The average response time of the children to the robot’s prompts was also registered. At the end of each session, the robot asked the participant if he/she wanted to play more. This information was also recorded. The non-parametric Wilcoxon signed-rank test (alternative to parametric paired t-test) was used to compare children’s attention during the storytelling game scenario using chil- dren’s mean duration per gaze. This test is reported using the Z statistic. 4 Results The following section discusses the results of the four-step study: the Focus Group, Think- Aloud Sessions, the Online Questionnaire, and the Pilot Study. 4.1 The Focus Group The Focus Group analysis was organized according to its three study categories: the game scenarios, the OPT device, and the role of the robot. Analysing the goals of the scenarios, the amount of stimuli in the scenarios, the focal group suggested decreasing the number of objects in the scenarios—“...therefore, the first aspect would be to have only what matters, in this story, which is Zeca, Alice, and the game...focus the attention of the child with autism spectrum disorder on the face of the robot and the emotion that the robot is going to have; ... I think it would be better to have fewer objects ...”’ (P5). Following the same idea, participant P10 proposed—“... remove most of the elements you may have’. Moreover, in all scenarios, the participants recom- mended directing the focus to the characters in the story and using a simple element to describe the scenes— “Yes, leave only one element that identifies the place ... and focus the child’s attention on the character” (P1). Thus, presenting only the materials needed to complete the activity and eliminating irrelevant and potentially distracting materials can be a good visual arrangement (Hampshire & Hourcade, 2016). Finally, the objects placed in the scene should be similar to those that children usually see and play with—“...1 would use what kids usually play with...” (P9). Regarding spatial location in the scenarios, the objects that identify the scenes should be placed in the background relative to the main character—“... put the elements in the back- ground there or somewhere in the picture, showing that this is a playground because it has a slide...” (P10). Other participants also supported this claim— “This allows contextualization” (P9). Participant (P3) further stresses this idea— “Often this is the the difficulty here, this con- textualization, but at the same time we do not want it to be the focus of the child’s attention, but rather a global understanding of the situation.” This idea is supported by Happé and Frith D) Springer Social Stories for Promoting Social Communication with Children... Fig.5 Physical appearance of the main character of the stories. On the left, it is shown a photo of the robot. On the right, it is a visual cartoon representation of the same robot ; } ' } (2006) where the author says that: “a person with ASD prefers a detail-oriented analysis and demonstrates great difficulty, or even inability to process global information”. Furthermore, children with ASD have the facility to segment into parts, but they struggle when they need to deal with a global organization of the material (Mammarella et al., 2014). Also, as the scenar- 10S are static images, the participants suggested adding a sense of some movement to some of them to give the idea that something is happening. For example, in one of the scenarios there is a tower of blocks that the supporting character, Alice, knocks down, so it was suggested that some blocks fall— “You can have the tower and the top with her hand, some falling and others on the ground.” (P9) In another scenario, it was suggested to add a crowd of people appearing to walk— “Exactly, I would insert some movement, like people walking ...” (P3). Concerning the colour palette of the scenarios, the participants suggested the use of more vivid and contrasting colours, to accentuate the objects in the scenario and draw the child’s attention since colours usually attract the child—“... J would tweak the colour palette in the room, I think (Ha) overall it is all very lively and I think the wall and floor should have a more beaten colour and the toys should have brighter colours to help focus (Hd), on the event...” (P9). In the same sense—“... there has to be a colour palette that gives a contrast like that, to differentiate.” (P2). Moreover, the participants suggested not to use white as a background colour since they considered that it is not a warm/cosy colour—“ ... the background wall may have a colour, not white, white will give an, an air ... it is not cosy, ...”’ (P9). Regarding the appearance of the main character (ZECA), Fig. 5, participants agreed to use a more cartoon like avatar instead of the real image of the robot— “Throughout the vari- ous scenarios that we see (Ha) I identified, at the level of facial expression, I identified more with the, the avatar than with the robot, yes. That’s why I think it is easier here to perceive the ZECA, but in cartoon form.” (P6); Participant P3 further reinforces this opinion— “It is because in the scenarios that we have been choosing, we have been defining, I think it fits more, this cartoon alike image’’. In the same sense participant P9 complements this view— “It looks like it is part of the picture.” (P9). Moreover, the participants recommended that the facial expressions of the main story character, ZECA, should translate the emotion in the story, 1.e., if in the story ZECA was angry, its facial expression in the image should reflect the same emotion—“...it would help if the robot showed some facial expression, in this scenario G) Springer V. Silva et al. Fig.6 The interface that is ot prompted to the child on the OPT b>) 19} where he/she has to select the correct answer by pressing the arrows in order to scroll through the different emojis that reflect ; b0Stor_ the emotion presented in the storytelling scenario > it could be an angry facial expression...”’ (P3). Regarding the other characters in the stories, they should display a neutral facial expression or the same expression as the main character, ZECA, when the feeling is mutual. Regarding the design of the OPT and considering how the answer options should be prompted to the child, the participants suggested that only one option should appear at a time. Since the device has a touch-sensitive display and an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), the child could select the answer by touching the arrows, as shown in Fig. 6, or tilting the device back and forward to scroll through the options, promoting a more dynamic way of interac- tion—“That’s it, that’s part of dynamism, I still realize, the idea of sweeping is more intuitive yes, but this question is also dynamic ... It is more elaborate, the gesture requires more compe- tence, but it is possible to be even more motivating, more dynamic...” (P3). He further stresses this idea—“... J say again in terms of competence it requires more than just the sweep or the option to press the arrow, but it becomes perhaps more dynamic.” (P3). The participants suggested that manipulation/interaction should be configurable accord- ing to the child’s capacity. Regarding the overall size of the new OPT device, participants agreed with the use of a 5-inch display—“Yes” (all participants). In addition, one participant expressed concern that a bigger size of the screen could be difficult for the child to interact with the tilt ges- tures, becoming less comfortable—“... J realize that having a bigger screen could be bet- ter in visual terms, but in terms of interaction, too big can be difficult to operate...” (P3). This perspective is in line with the one advocated by P8—“T think they are so used to mobile phones, and all sorts of games, that they focus their attention on them, on devices like that, as the first one, and it’s easier to handle something smaller”. Considering the types of feedback of the OPT, it was suggested to the participants to discuss the option of using visual (through the display and multicolour LEDs), sound, and haptic feedback. First, the participants suggested the use of visual feedback, for example, by displaying an animation with fireworks—“Or like those little things coming out, like fireworks, that’s right...” (P8). However, another element of the group proposed the use of simple feedback images, without animation—“J wouldn’t put animation, put good in green, try again in yellow or...” (P5). Other participants agreed with this idea—“Ah/ Yes. I agree with P5, the positive and negative gesture I find it simpler.” (P4). The participant P8 supports the same idea— “Jt can also be”. Additionally, the inclusion of other stimulus such as haptic, sound, and the use of multicolour LEDs was discussed, however some par- ticipants expressed some concerns about the use of several forms of feedback— “Jt is too much confusion, a lot of stimuli, we already have the sound stimuli, the visual one and we will still have the haptics...” (P3). D) Springer soouarajoid $s .pyryo oy} 0} SuIpr0soR dqeinsyUuod aq pynoys yoeqpseyj Jo odA} ou], yoerqpssy ondey pure sq] Jnojoonjnus Jo asn oF, yorqpos] [eNsIA se saseul o[dumts asn OF, ‘poysossns sem Avydsip 1a331q V pringer DS ‘QOLAOp OU} YM SUOVIDIUL JO SULIOJ SB SaINjsos YONO} JO ILL, Ayroedes s pry oy} 0} SUIPIO.OV aTquinsyUOoS oq p[noys LdO 94} Jo UONSvIOWUL/UONe[NdiuewW sy, sdIAIP [dO -yorq SIYM JO PRdISUI SINO[OO JOULIEM 9SN OF, SINOJ[OD SUNSP.UOD PUL PIAIA dIOW 9SN OF, oneyed inojod Social Stories for Promoting Social Communication with Children... SOLIBUDOS BY} 0} JUDUIIAOUL SUOS JO SUT[DIJ & PpP OT, rajoereyo UIC OY} 0} DATIVTOI pUNOIS YOR oy) url pooeyd aq plnoys sousos ay) AJNUApT yey) syoalgo dU I, uoTyeoo] [eneds yorqpsoy Aeydstq uolepndiueyy PIYS ot} O} JeI[WUeJ dq P[NOYs dUIdds 9) UT podeyd syoolqo oY], spunois SOUDDS BY} BQIIOSAp 0} JUSTATO oTduIIs B asN pue AIONS DY} Ul SIDJOVILYO BY} SPILMO} SNDOJ 9} JOIIP OJ, SOLIBUDDS 9Y) UI $Jafqo Jo JaquINU dy} aseaIDap OJ, —- SOLIRUIOS yunowre TTNWINS dnois snooj ay} JO suotsnjouod ¢ ajqey V. Silva et al. On the other hand, other participants were more open to this idea— “Yeah, the game can have this repertoire. And I don’t know, try it because you might have a child who enjoys it.” (P10). For children with ASD, learning via reinforcement feedback can be one of the most effective approaches to reinforcing desired behaviours because, throughout learning, an association is formed between a suggestion or action and a reinforcer with some intrin- sic motivational value (Schuetze et al., 2017). Following this idea, the participants agreed with the use of all forms of feedback proposed, but suggested that they should be config- urable to each child—“Yes you will have to configure it ...” (P3). Therefore, the type of feedback must be configurable for different children as some types of feedback can be less enjoyable for some individuals, e.g., in the case of children with ASD, in general, sound feedback can be unpleasant for them (American Psychiatric Association, 2013b). Considering the role of the robot, in particular, the interaction procedure between the child and the robot, the participants agreed that when the robot starts telling a story, the picture that represents that story should be displayed on the OPT, at the same time, and when the robot prompts the question asking what the emotion was, the options should appear— “The image of the story would disappear, I think so.” (P8). Participant P9 also shares the same opinion—“So the image would be there, but it would work the way you say, the answer options would only appear when you ask the question, after the question, and they would not appear before.” (P9). Regarding the scenarios, in general, all participants suggested the development of new ones taking into account the aspects discussed during the focus group. Most participants preferred the cartoon scenario (marked as B in Fig. 3), but adding the cartoon looking robot as well as some changes to these scenarios taking into account the number and spa- tial locations of objects and the colours used— “Personally, I think that B has (Ha) a more striking set of colours than A, no doubt, at the same time it could also be, have more dis- tracting elements” (P3). Table 3 shows the group’s overall conclusion about the ideas discussed during the focus group. Figure 7 illustrates the interaction procedure between the robot and the child agreed upon by the focus group participants: the child interacts with the robot and the experiment- er’s role is to supervise and intervene when and if necessary. 4.2 Think-Aloud Sessions The scenarios were developed following the main considerations of the focus group par- ticipants. Then, they were shown to the experts, who were asked to verbalize their thoughts about them. Figure 8 shows an example of two scenarios that were designed and validated following both the focus group and the experts’ input/directions. The final design of the OPT (Fig. 9) was obtained following the main thoughts of the focus group and the specialists’ suggestions. It has a 5-inch display and an ergonomic design without any sharp edges, as suggested by the specialists. 4.3 Online Questionnaire Results The information gathered with the online questionnaire allowed verifying the accuracy of the three scenarios per emotion. Figure 10 summarizes the results of the online question- naire. The chart shows the average emotion matching accuracy (%) of the three scenarios D) Springer Social Stories for Promoting Social Communication with Children... Tels a random , Listen to the social story ¥ Ask how it fet in the story Robot Waits for the response intervenes if necessary Reward Experimenter Fig. 7 The interaction diagram for the storytelling game scenario Fig.8 Sample images of two storytelling game scenarios. The one on the left represents the emotion of anger. The one on the right represents surprise Fig.9 Final design of the OPT device per emotion for adults and children. For each emotion, there are three stories. Thus, for each emotion and target group (adult and children), the average of the matching accuracy (%) was computed. In general, the average emotion matching accuracy was 91.8% for adults, and 89.9% for typically developing children. The lower value obtained (70.1%) cor- responds to the emotion Surprise for children. g) Springer V. Silva et al. Surprise Sadness 98.1 Happiness ppl 96.1 93.2 95.2 Fear 97.6 Anger ° 95.7 0.0 20.0 40.0 60.0 80.0 100.0 @ Children @ Adults Fig. 10 Average emotion matching accuracy (%) for children and adults, per emotion 4.4 Pilot Study Results A set of experiments was carried out in a school setting with four children with ASD who interacted with the robot in a triadic setup, playing the storytelling activity. Regard- ing the data obtained in the pilot study sessions, it was found that, in general, children gazed more the OPT device than the robot (Fig. 11A). In particular, the children’s mean gaze time in the storytelling game scenario was significantly shorter for gazes directed at the robot (M=5.28; SD=1.76) than for those directed at the OPT (M= 12.58; SD=2.97), Z= — 3.059, p<0.001, Fig. 11B. The numbers corresponding to correct answers and wrong answers are shown in Fig. 12. All participants answered the robot’s prompts and, in general, there was a positive evolu- tion regarding the number of successful answers throughout the sessions. On average, the children’s response time to the robot’s prompts was the same: around 52 s (Fig. 13A). The amount of time the children needed help was relatively low across all sessions, Fig. 13B (tending to no need of help throughout the sessions). 5 Conclusions and Future Work ASD 1s a developmental disorder defined by diagnostic criteria that characterizes individu- als who have deficits in social communication, interaction, and generalization. It is known that these individuals usually show interest in technological devices. Therefore, research has been conducted using technological devices with different forms and designs with this target group. Some recent works using social robots and OPT with children with ASD demonstrate that robots produce a high level of encouragement and engagement in these individuals. However, to the authors’ knowledge, there is no research considering the use of OPT as an add-on to the social robot. Thus, the research group proposed the new approach of using both OPT and social robots with the goal of promoting social communication with chil- dren with ASD (Silva et al., 2018). The developed work consists of defining the essential G) Springer Social Stories for Promoting Social Communication with Children... 100% “” % 80% co G) Ss 60% v a0 £ 40% Cc Vv UO a 20% a. 0% 12 3 123 1 2 3 12 3 A B C D ® Look at the robot(B1) Look at the OPT(B2) 20 18 @ 16 2 14 212 N 10 = & = 6 az 4 2 Oo 4 12 3 1 2 3 12 3 12 3 A 8 ec D @ Look to the robot(B1) ®™ Look to the OPT(B2) Fig. 11 Number of gazes (A) and mean gaze time (B) towards the robot and the OPT for the 4 children (A, B, C, and D) during the sessions 12 ~ © 10 : % 8 co s 6 = 2 < 0 1 2 3 12 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 A B G D m#RightAnswers & #WrongAnswers Fig. 12 Answers of the children to the robot’s prompts during the sessions features of the new OPT device (including size and forms of interaction, among others) and evaluating the adequacy of the scenarios of a storytelling game, using qualitative and quantitative research methodologies in a four-step study—a Focus Group, Think-Aloud Sessions, one Online Questionnaire, and a Pilot Study. Regarding the scenarios, in general, all participants in the focus group suggested the development of new ones taking into account the proposed aspects. Most participants G) Springer V. Silva et al. —o—A B -@-C -@—D onse ti c= wn wm © jo} ” < 40 ii s 35 30 1 2 3 Session —eo—A B —@—C —e®D 2.5 »y 2 i= [~* 215 a — °o Ss 1 2 £ on =os ) 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 Session Fig. 13 Top: children’s mean response time in seconds (with confidence interval) to the robot’s prompts during the four sessions. Bottom: number of times children needed help during the sessions preferred the cartoon scenario (marked as B in Fig. 3), but adding the robot with a cartoon appearance and changing the number and spatial locations of objects and the colour palette used. Concerning the new OPT device, participants agreed that the device should display dif- ferent forms of feedback adapted for each child, 1.e., it should be personalised. The mem- bers of the focus group also agreed that manipulation and interaction, 1.e., the use of ges- tures or arrows on the screen to select the answer, should be configurable according to the child’s interests and skills. Finally, the group strongly agreed that a 5-inch touch display would be the most adequate to be used on the device. The final designs of the OPT and the scenarios were obtained by conducting think- aloud sessions, following the feedback of the specialists and having in mind the results of the focus group. Finally, an online survey was conducted with 138 participants (children and adults). The average emotion matching accuracy was 91.8% for adults and 89.9% for typically developing children. Thus, in general, both children and adults correctly identi- fied the emotion of each social story (Silva et al., 2020). Following these results, a pilot study was conducted at the school with which the uni- versity has a cooperation protocol. Due to constraints such as the inherent characteristics of a population of children with ASD and inclusion criteria, 4 children with ASD participated in the pilot study. The results indicate a positive trend since the children understood the game mechanics and successfully interacted with OPT. Furthermore, children’s attention D) Springer Social Stories for Promoting Social Communication with Children... was directed to both the robot and the OPT, indicating that both components were success- ful in captivating their interest. In general, the mean time children gazed towards the OPT was longer, suggesting that children used/relied the OPT during this activity. The OPT dis- played the visual cues of the story told by the robot. Moreover, in general, the children showed interest in participating in the activities, as they wanted to continue playing. They were also attentive to the feedback from both the robot and the OPT: lights, haptic, as well as the images for correct and incorrect answers displayed on the OPT screen and the facial cues, gestures, sounds, and verbal prompts of the robot (Silva et al., 2021). The use of the OPT eliminates the need to have several visual cards, thus making the interaction seamless, as the interaction is dynamic. Additionally, the OPT device might offer a unique way to quantify a child’s behaviour without being too invasive (as it would be, for example, the use of wearable sensors) and further feed the system so that the robot “knows” the level of engagement of the child. The evaluation results seem encouraging and suggest that this hybrid approach may have the potential to effectively support the teaching—learning process of emotional skills. From the point of view of pedagogical practice, it can be used as a complement to learning and, potentially, as an add-on to traditional approaches, diversifying support practices. It has been shown that robots can effectively engage children with ASD (Dautenhahn & Werry, 2004; Mwangi et al., 2018; Tapus et al., 2012). Thus, the present approach may offer a way for creating learning opportunities that involve the training of competences, for example via repeti- tion, implying greater levels of attention and involvement in the task while providing adequate reinforcement, (Scassellati, et al., 2018; Suzuki, 2014). At the same time, it can promote higher levels of motivation (Dautenhahn & Werry, 2004; Mwangi et al., 2018; Tapus et al., 2012) and the child’s participation in the development of emotion recognition skills. The different theories explaining ASD account for the inter-individual differences of children with ASD, justifying the need for more eclectic tools that focus on the char- acteristics of the particular child rather than the general characteristics of the disorder (Lombardo et al., 2010). By using social robots with specific capabilities, such as syn- thesis and recognition of facial expression, therapists can provide more precise and indi- vidualized support to children with ASD (Diehl et al., 2012). In fact, this inter-individ- ual differentiation of the child with ASD has methodological implications, namely the need to structure and control the support environment, aspects that assistive technolo- gies can promote and safeguard, allowing therapists to observe and analyse interactions and learning behaviours. These data can then be used to adjust support sessions and create an individualized learning curriculum (Wainer et al., 2014). The proposed 4-step study methodology (focus group, think-aloud, online question- naire, and pilot study) was used as an initial step to assess the adequacy of the proposed innovative hybrid approach of using a robot and an OPT device to promote interaction and emotion recognition skills in children with ASD. Moreover, the methodology pro- vided implications on how to design storyboards for an HRI scenario. The sample of the pilot study allowed testing the constraints of the experimental design as intended. Nev- ertheless, as future work and with the objective of assessing further constraints, making conclusions, and inferring results more experiments will be conducted, with the increase of the sample size leading to more representative sample and results of this target group. The process of designing tangible interfaces requires building a bridge between the physical and digital worlds, which presents both design and technological challenges. Furthermore, it is important to take into account the nature of the target group. The use of qualitative and quantitative research methodologies can be useful when designing D) Springer V. Silva et al. new interaction tools. By making use of these research methodologies, it was possible to explore different technological tools in order to develop an innovative way to promote the process of supporting children with ASD. Acknowledgements The authors thank the teachers and students at the Elementary School of Gualtar (EB 1/ JI Gualtar) in Braga for their participation in the study. Author Contributions All authors contributed to the study conception and design. Material preparation, data collection and analysis were performed by VS and CPL. The first draft of the manuscript was written by VS and all authors commented on previous versions of the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript. Funding Open access funding provided by FCTIFCCN (b-on). This work has been supported by FCT - Fundagao para a Ciéncia e Tecnologia within the R&D Units Project Scope: UIDB/003 19/2020. Vinicius Silva thanks FCT for the PhD scholarship SFRH/BD/SFRH/BD/133314/2017. Declarations Conflict of interest The authors declare no conflict of interest. Consent for Publication All authors consent to publish the manuscript. Ethical Approval The study was conducted according to the guidelines of the Declaration of Hel- sinki and approved by the Ethics Committee of the University of Minho (internal protocol code SECVS 028/2014-ADENDA, 6 May 2019). Consent to Participate Informed consent was obtained from all subjects involved in the study. Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Com- mons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. References Amado, J. (2014). Manual de investigacdo qualitativa em educacdo. Imprensa da Universidade de Coimbra. American Psychiatric Association (2013a). Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders, (DSM-5), 5th edn. Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders TR, 4th edn (p. 280). https://doi.org/10. 1176/appi.books.9780890425596.744053. American Psychiatric Association. (2013b). Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders, DSM5 (Sth ed.). APA. Begum, M., Serna, R. W., Kontak, D., Allspaw, J., Kuczynski, J., Yanco, H. A., & Suarez, J. (2015). Meas- uring the efficacy of robots in autism therapy. In Proceedings of the Tenth Annual ACM/IEEE Interna- tional Conference on Human-Robot Interaction - HRI (pp. 335-342). https://doi.org/10.1145/2696454. 2696480 Breazeal, C. (2000). Sociable machines: Expressive social exchange between humans and robots. Catlin, D., & Blamires, M. (2019). Designing robots for special needs education. Technology, Knowledge and Learning, 24, 291-313. https://doi.org/10.1007/s 10758-018-9378-8 Christensen, D. L., et al. (2016). Prevalence and characteristics of autism spectrum disorder among chil- dren aged 8 years—autism and developmental disabilities monitoring network, 11 sites, United States, 2012. MMWR. Surveillance Summaries, 65(3), 1-23. https://doi.org/10.15585/mmwr.ss6503a1 Q) Springer Social Stories for Promoting Social Communication with Children... Costa, S. (2014). Affective robotics for socio-emotional skills development in children with autism spectrum disorders. Doctoral Thesis, University of Minho. Costa, S., Lehmann, H., Dautenhahn, K., Robins, B., & Soares, F. (2015). Using a humanoid robot to elicit body awareness and appropriate physical interaction in children with autism. Jnternational Journal of Social Robotics, 7(2), 265-278. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12369-014-0250-2 Dautenhahn, K., & Werry, I. (2004). Towards interactive robots in autism therapy: Background, motivation and challenges. Pragmatics & Cognition, 12(1), 1-35. https://doi.org/10.1075/pc.12.1.03dau de Lima, C. B., & Levy, P. Q. (2015). A Perturbagao do Espetro do Autismo. In Perturbacées do Neurode- senvolvimento: Manual de orientacdes diagnosticas e estratégias de intervencdo. Diehl, J. J., Schmitt, L. M., Villano, M., & Crowell, C. R. (2012). The clinical use of robots for individu- als with Autism Spectrum Disorders: A critical review. Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders, 6, 249-262. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rasd.2011.05.006 Ferrari, E., Robins, B., & Dautenhahn, K. (2009). Therapeutic and educational objectives in robot assisted play for children with autism. In JEEE International Workshop on Robot and Human Interactive Com- munication (Ro-Man) (pp. 108-114). https://doi.org/10.1109/ROMAN.2009.532625 1 Gray, C. A., & Garand, J. D. (1993). Social stories: Improving responses of students with autism with accu- rate social information. Focus on Autistic Behavior, 8(1), 1-10. Hampshire, P. K., & Hourcade, J. J. (2016). Teaching play skills to children with autism using visually structured tasks. Teaching Exceptional Children, 46(3), 26-31. https://doi.org/10.1177/00400599 14 04600303 Happé, F., & Frith, U. (2006). The weak coherence account: Detail-focused cognitive style in autism spectrum disorders. Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. https://doi.org/10.1007/ s10803-005-0039-0 HomePage - Robotica Autismo. http://roboticaautismo.com/. Accessed 2 May 2018. Kokina, A., & Kern, L. (2010). Social storyTM interventions for students with autism spectrum disor- ders: A meta-analysis. Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. https://doi.org/10.1007/ s10803-009-093 1-0 Lombardo, M. V. (2010). Atypical neural self-representation in autism. Brain, 133, 611-624. https://doi. org/10.1093/brain/awp306 Lund, H., Dam Pedersen, M., & Beck, R. (2009). Modular robotic tiles: Experiments for children with autism. Artificial Life and Robotics, 13, 394-400. https://doi.org/10.1007/s 10015-008-0623-4 Mammarella, I. C., Giofré, D., Caviola, S., Cornoldi, C., & Hamilton, C. (2014). Visuospatial working memory in children with autism: The effect of a semantic global organization. Research in Devel- opmental Disabilities, 35(6), 1349-1356. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ridd.2014.03.030 Mwangi, E., Barakova, E. I., Diaz, M., Mallofre, A. C., & Rauterberg, M. (2018) Dyadic gaze patterns during child-robot collaborative gameplay in a tutoring interaction. In RO-MAN 2018—27th IEEE International Symposium on Robot and Human Interactive Communication (pp. 856-861). https:// doi.org/10.1109/ROMAN.2018.8525799 Myles, B. S., Swanson, T. C., Holverstott, J.. & Moore, M. B. (2013). Autism spectrum disorders: A handbook for parents and professionals. Choice reviews online. https://doi.org/10.5860/choice. 45-5017 Ocak, E., Eshraghi, R. S., Danesh, A., Mittal, R., & Eshraghi, A. A. (2018). Central auditory processing disorders in individuals with autism spectrum disorders. Balkan Medical Journal. https://doi.org/ 10.4274/balkanmedj.2018.0853 Pennisi, P., et al. (2016). Autism and social robotics: A systematic review. Autism Research, 9(2), 165— 183. https://doi.org/10.1002/aur.1527 Pérez-Vazquez, E., Lorenzo, G., Lled6, A., & Lorenzo-Lled6, A. (2020). Evolution and identification from a bibliometric perspective of the use of robots in the intervention of children with ASD. Tech- nology, Knowledge and Learning, 25, 83-114. https://doi.org/10.1007/s 10758-019-09415-8 Scassellati, B., Boccanfuso, L., Huang, C. M., Mademtzi, M., Qin, M., Salomons, N., Ventola, P., & Shic, F. (2018). Improving social skills in children with ASD using a long-term, in-home social robot. Science Robotics, 3, eaat7544. https://doi.org/10.1126/SCIROBOTICS.AAT7544 Scattone, D., Tingstrom, D. H., & Wilczynski, S. M. (2006). Increasing appropriate social interactions of children with autism spectrum disorders using Social StoriesTM. Focus on Autism Other Devel- opmental Disabilities. https://doi.org/10.1177/108835760602 10040201 Schuetze, M., Rohr, C. S., Dewey, D., McCrimmon, A., & Bray, S. (2017). Reinforcement learning in autism spectrum disorder. Frontiers in Psychology, 8, 2025. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2017. 02035 D) Springer V. Silva et al. Silva, V., Soares, F., & Esteves, J. S. (2017). Mirroring and recognizing emotions through facial expres- sions for a RoboKind platform. In ENBENG 2017—Sth Portuguese Meeting on Bioengineering, Proceedings. https://doi.org/10.1109/ENBENG.2017.7889480 Silva, V., Soares, F., Esteves, J. S., & Pereira, A. P. (2018). Building a hybrid approach for a game scenario using a tangible interface in human robot interaction. In Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics). Silva, V., Soares, F., Esteves, J. S., Pereira, A. P., Leao, C. P., & Queirés, S. (2021). Hybrid approach to promote social interaction with children with Autism Spectrum Disorder. In International Confer- ence on Information and Communication Technologies for Ageing Well and e-Health, SCITEPRESS Digital Library (pp. 1-9). Silva, V., Soares, F., Esteves, J. S., & Pereira, A. P. (2019). PlayCube: Designing a tangible playware module for human-robot interaction. Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing. https://doi. org/10.1007/978-3-030-02053-8_80 Silva, V., Soares, F., Esteves, J. S., Pereira, A. P., & Matos, D. (2020). Adequacy of game scenarios for an object with playware technology to promote emotion recognition in children with autism spec- trum disorder. Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030- 27928-8_44 Soares, F. O., Costa, S. C., Santos, C. P., Pereira, A. P. S., Hiolle, A. R., & Silva, V. (2019). Socio-emo- tional development in high functioning children with Autism Spectrum Disorders using a humanoid robot. Interaction Studies, 20(2), 205-233. https://doi.org/10.1075/is.15003.cos Social Stories and Comic Strip Conversations. (2021). https://www.autism.org.uk/advice-and-guidance/ topics/communication/communication-tools/social-stories-and-comic-strip-coversations. Accessed 23 Feb 2021). Sosnowski, S., Kuehnlenz, K., & Buss, M. (2006). EDDIE—An emotion display with dynamic intuitive expressions. In 2006 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (pp. 3113-3118). https://doi.org/10.1109/IROS.2006.282208 Stake, R. E. (2010). Qualitative research: Studying how things work. Guilford Press. Stewart, D. W., & Shamdasani, P. N. (2014). Focus groups: Theory and practice (3rd ed.). SAGE Publica- tions Inc. Suzuki, K. (2014). Social Playware: Device-mediated social interaction for therapeutic activities. In JEEE RO-MAN 2014—23rd IEEE International Symposium on Robot and Human Interactive Communica- tion: Human-Robot Co-Existence: Adaptive Interfaces and Systems for Daily Life, Therapy, Assistance and Socially Engaging Interactions. https://doi.org/10.1109/ROMAN.2014.6926232 Tapus, A., Peca, A., Aly, A., Pop, C., Jisa, L., Pintea, S., Rusu, A. S., & David, D. O. (2012). Children with autism social engagement in interaction with Nao, an imitative robot. Interaction Studies, 13(3), 315-347. Wainer, J., Dautenhahn, K., Robins, B., & Amirabdollahian, F. (2014). A pilot study with a novel setup for collaborative play of the humanoid robot KASPAR with children with autism. /nternational Journal of Social Robotics, 6, 45-65. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12369-013-0195-x Publisher’s Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. D) Springer 