Applied Mechanics and Materials Vol. 393 (2013) pp 573-578 Online available since 2013/Sep/03 at www.scientific.net © (2013) Trans Tech Publications, Switzerland doi: 10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMM. 393.573 Study on Social Interaction between Children with Autism and Humanoid Robot NAO Mohd Azfar Miskam"*, Mohd Aminullah Che Hamid’, Hanafiah Yussof"”, Syamimi Shamsuddin'°, Norjasween Abdul Malik' and Siti Nora Basir’ "Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM), 40450 Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia. Universiti Teknikal Malaysia Melaka (UTeM), Hang Tuah Jaya, 76100 Melaka, Malaysia. ‘aqua.genius24@gmail.com, "hanafiah1034@salam.uitm.edu.my, “syamimi@ieee.org Keywords: human-robot interaction (HRI), autism, humanoid robot NAO Abstract. Autism cannot run away from their triangle deficits: social, communication and stereotyped behaviour. There is no cure for autism or any definitive treatment to treat the core symptoms of this developmental disorder. However, the deficits can be minimized by maximize their learning through behavioural therapy and educational intervention. Nowadays, the methods in the rehabilitation of autism have been upgraded by the innovation of humanoid robots, in particular the humanoid robot NAO. In this study, NAO has being programmed using Choregraphe as programming tool to develop lesson modules for children with autism to practice their social interaction skill. This paper focuses specifically on social interaction subscale to observe the behaviour of the autistic children during interaction with the humanoid robot NAO. The observation is based on six items referenced from the Gilliam Autism Rating Scale-second edition (GARS-2). The use of humanoid robot NAO in the rehabilitation of autistic children is expected to help them to interact and practice their social traits just like normal children. The results evidently showed that children with autism are positively affected by NAO by giving encouraging responses in social interaction when interacting with the robot. Two-way communication between the child and robot in real time significantly give positive impact in the responses towards the robot. Introduction Autism is characterized in varying degrees, by difficulties in social interaction, verbal and nonverbal communication and repetitive behaviours [1]. Deficits in social interaction for children with autism also include deficits in joint attention. Joint attention consists of two people sharing an activity, event or thought. It includes coordinating attention between people and object, attending to a social partner, sharing gaze between people and objects. To be able sharing affects and emotional states with another’s person and being able to draw another person attention to object or events for the purpose of sharing experience [2]. Robots may help children with autism in rehabilitation since robot is predictable and simpler in interactions, it creates an atmosphere that children feel more comfortable and the social interactions between them are in control [3]. Unlike normal people, the interaction is less predictable and sometime beyond the prediction. It 1s difficult to children with autism in interaction with normal children due to they cannot cope with them and more attract to object as robot. The children are not frightened by the robotic agent and enjoy the chance to interact through the medium of play involving free bodily movements and making physical contact with the robot [4]. Robots also comply with the requirements for repetitive action and a stable environment during the process of rehabilitation of children with autism [5]. Since child with autism have great problem with social interaction, a robot is used to teach communication using both voice and movement [6]. Turn taking can be implemented through simple games and communication via pictures can be performed. The robot can perform shapes and simple matching tasks which the child can observe and interact with or a series of actions can be performed by the robot which may wait for an action from the child at key points 1n this way a robot is able to become a teaching aid helping the children to learn tasks and actions which can be built on later by teachers and parents [5]. All rights reserved. No part of contents of this paper may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the written permission of TTP, www.ttp.net. (ID: 128.173.127.127, Virginia Tech University, University Libraries, Blacksburg, USA-30/08/14,22:17:35) 574 Advances in Manufacturing and Mechanical Engineering Methodology and Experimental Set-up In conducting this project, it 1s a must to know and understand all the theories and concept needed to achieve the objective. It mainly focuses on the aspects such as autism, rehabilitation robotics, social interaction for autism and therapy available for children with autism. From here, data is gathered from state-of-the art literature and critical analysis from the previous pilot study [7- 8] 1s made to develop suitable modules to suit our aim. The flowchart below (Figure 1) shows the flow of the modules in our experiment. Module 1: Module 2: Module 3: Module 4: Introduction Teach Guess Game Play Song Rapport Emotions (emotions) and Dance Fig. 1: Flowchart of developing module The justification for each proposed module 1s presented in Table 1. These modules are focused mainly on observing the children if he makes eye contact or looks away when humanoid robot NAO looks at him. The modules are also prepared to observe whether the children give stares or looks unhappy or unexcited when praised, humoured or entertained. Table 1: Justification for Each Robot-based Interaction Module Justification Module |: Introductory To make a children get to know and to be friendly with Rapport humanoid robot NAO. The two ways communication between them also helps a children in interactions [7-8] Module 2: Story on To give a lesson to the children on how to identify emotions Emotions with Gestures based on body gestures with a sample story for appropriate emotions in particular situations [9-10] Module 3: Game — Guess To see whether the children can identify the emotions and in Game this module, 1 additional emotion, which did not have in the module 2 is to see if the children can guess or not [9] Module 4: Ending with Song Songs can help the children to stimulate their brain cell to — Twinkle-twinkle Little identify emotions more effectively [11-12]. Songs from Star television program — Barney and friends for this module has been selected because of this song is one of the most popular songs among the nursery in Malaysia [7]. The hand-movement dance by the humanoid robot NAO is to give enjoyment to the children while listening to the song, and to see whether the children tends to follow the robot movement or not Module 1 starts with the humanoid robot NAO saying ‘Hello’ while waving his hand. After 5 seconds, NAO will ask permission to sit, if the child say “Yes”, NAO react to sit. But if the answer is “No”, NAO will remain standing and continue the session. NAO then continue to introducing himself and ask for the child’s name. After that, NAO continue asking these questions: ‘Are you happy today?’, ‘What is your favourite colour?’, “Do you like going to school?’ and ‘Why do you like your school?’ The humanoid robot NAO will teach 5 emotions with his hand gestures to children in Module 2. The first round of teaching is included with background music to show how to interpret the feeling Applied Mechanics and Materials Vol. 393 575 in certain environment. NAO then repeat the hand gestures emotion without the sound background but NAO will tell what it is. NAO hand gestures emotions listed were; feel hungry; feel happy; feel mad; feel scare; and feel hug. For module 3, it is to observe if the children can guess all five emotions teach in module 2 and one additional emotion that did not teach in module 2. Meanwhile, module 4 required the children to imitate humanoid robot NAO during play song until the end. Suitable subjects for this study had been selected from Pusat Jagaan Anak-anak Istimewa — Sayang in Shah Alam, Selangor. The criteria for the children are: age between 6 to 9 years old, has been diagnosed as autism, no hearing and vision deficit, no nystagmus, no self injury, able to understand and speak English, and able to follow a simple command in English. However, we must first obtain formal consent from the children’s parents before they can participate. Experimental Layout Room setup for the program is made according to the planned layout (Figure 3). Testing of pre- programmed modules using humanoid robot NAO and setting up of suitable distance between child and robot were done prior to the experiment. Child Teacher/ Guardian - r ms _ _ Video - - <@> Camera 3 Toilet Video Control Area Camera 1 ' Video ~ , . Camera 2 Operato Manual Table | Operato Fig. 3: Layout of the experimental area The room are divided into two sections: operator area and child-robot interaction area as shown in Figure 4. Operator area is where the operator observes the interaction (during experiment) using a television that is connected with two cameras in interaction area. Fig. 4: Operator control area (left) and child-robot interaction area (right) 576 Advances in Manufacturing and Mechanical Engineering Se | Fig. 5: Child KA (left) and HH (right) interacting with humanoid robot NAO Figure 5 show screenshots from the recorded video when NAO 1s interacting with each of the children. Note that during the experiment each child was accompanied by his own teacher. The teacher’s role is to provide ‘comforting presence’ to the child throughout the interaction. This is deemed necessary as the experiment will be the encounter between the child and the robot. Results and Discussions The behaviour percentage is calculated from the score given in the behaviour score sheet during each module. Behaviour score sheet for social interaction sub-scale contains 6 items that are referenced and selected from The Gilliam Autism Rating Scale (GARS-2) and previously elaborated in [7-8]. Less percentage indicates that the child’s behaviour 1s close to typically developing children and vice versa for indication of high percentage. The total percentage of observed autistic characteristics as analyzed from the video record 1s shown in Figure 6. This pie chart shows that in general, child KA only showed 6% of the autistic characteristics in social behaviours during the child-robot interaction. Meanwhile, child HH showed a higher percentage of 17% of his autistic behaviours in social interaction during the program. It clearly shows that KA did not show 94% of common autistic characteristic in the social subscale compared to child HH with 83%. Percentage of 6 and 17 % are observed to be encouraging results in this intervention program where the children saw the robot for the first time. 33.33%33.33% 33.33% @ Not Showing Autistic Behaviours Module 1 Module2 Module3 Module4 Fig. 6: Total percentage of observed autistic Fig. 7: Bar chart on percentage of social traits during intervention program behaviours by module Figure 7 illustrates percentage of social autistic behaviour shown by each child during each interaction module. During Module 1, both children showed 33.33% of their social characteristics of autism. It is observed in module 1 that both child KA and HH did avoid eye contact with NAO more than once. Child KA does not imitate humanoid robot NAO when imitation is required, meanwhile HH was observed to be staring at the robot. Applied Mechanics and Materials Vol. 393 577 In Module 2, child KA showed 16.67% while child HH showed 33.33% of their autistic characteristics. Child KA showed improvement in by only avoiding eye contact. Child HH does not imitate NAO when required and again was observed to be staring at NAO during the interaction. Child KA showed stark improvement in Module 3 and Module 4 with 0% of observed autistic characteristics. On the other hand, child HH showed more autistic behaviour in Module 3 with 50% of score but the percentage had reduced in Module 4 to 16.67%. All the observed percentages show that responses from both children towards NAO during the interaction are encouraging. Most importantly, both children had correctly guessed all the five emotions shown by NAO body postures. Summary The experimental analysis using the behaviour score sheet demonstrates that optimistic results have been obtained from this experiment that is elaborated below: 1) Overall, child KA and HH did not show 94% and 83% (respectively) of the social autistic traits during the whole session of child-robot interaction 2) Child KA was not observed to be staring at the humanoid robot NAO which is alike a typically developing child compared to HH who was observed to significantly do so during throughout the interaction 3) Neither KA nor HH showed to behave in unreasonably fearful or frightened manner, laughs or giggled or cries inappropriately and does certain things repetitively. It stated that those children do not show their autistic characteristics in these behaviours. 4) In guess emotions game, both children can remember and answer well when humanoid robot NAO asks them. It is successful to teach emotions towards children with autism using humanoid robot NAO. To conclude, this project has been successfully completed beginning with the module development, NAO programming using Choregraphe software and experimental stage which has been conducted to observe the children’s response to the modules that had been developed. Both children have really enjoyed themselves participating in the program especially when humanoid robot NAO is interacting with them and played the “Twinkle-twinkle Little Star’ song for them. The two-way communication in the module is found to be successful since each child had been able to respond and answer the questions from NAO. During the interaction program, there was also significant amount of eye contact observed between the child and robot throughout the modules; giving a good indicator on the positive outcome of robot-based intervention for the rehabilitation of children with autism in Malaysia. References [1] Marshalyn Yeargin-Allsopp, M.D. (2008), “Autism Spectrum Disorders: Definition, Detection and Prevalence”, 7 Annual DD Conference University of California San Francisco School of Medicine and Nursing. [2] Mundy, P, Sigman, M., & Kasari, C. (1990). “A longitudinal study of joint attention and language development in autistic children”. Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders, 20, 115-128. [3] Robins, B. (2006), “The Role of the Experimenter in HRI Research- A case Study Evaluation of Children with Autism Interacting with a Robotic Toy’, Robot and Human Interactive Communication, 2006. Roman 2006. The 15" IEEE International Symposium. [4] Kerstin Dautenhahn, and Iain Werry, “Issues of Robot Human Interaction Dynamics in the Rehabilitation of Children with Autism” Pages 3-5, University of Hertfordshire and University of Reading, United Kingdom. 578 Advances in Manufacturing and Mechanical Engineering [5] I. Werry and K.Dautenhahn (1999), "Applying Mobile Robot Technology to the Rehabilitation of Autistic Children," in SIRS’99, Symposium on Intelligent Robotics Systems, Coimbra, Portugal. [6] Filipek, et al. (2000). “Practice Parameter: Screening and Diagnosis of Autism’, Report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology and the Child Neurology Society. Neurology, 55:468-479. [7] Shamsuddin, S., Yussof, H., Ismail, L., Hanapiah, F. A., Mohamed, S., Piah, H. A., & Zahari, N. I. (2012). “Initial response of autistic children in human-robot interaction therapy with humanoid robot NAO”. In Signal Processing and its Applications (CSPA), 2012 IEEE 8th International Colloquium on (pp. 188-193). IEEE. [8] Ismail, L. I., Shamsuddin, S., Yussof, H., Hanapiah, F. A., & Zahari, N. I. (2012). “Robot- based Intervention Program for Autistic Children with Humanoid Robot NAO: Initial Response in Stereotyped Behaviour”. Procedia Engineering, 41, 1441-1447. [9] Aryel Beck, Lola Canamero and Kim A. Bard (2010), “Towards and Affect Space for Robots to Display Emotional Body Languange”, in 19th IEEE International Symposium on Robot and Human Interactive Communication, Principe di Plemonta — Viareggio, Italy. [10] Pelachaud, C., Gelin, R., Martin, J. C., & Le, Q. A. (2010). “Expressive Gestures Displayed by a Humanoid Robot during a Storytelling Application”. New Frontiers in Human-Robot Interaction (AISB), Leicester, GB. [11] Neha Kethapral (2009), “Why does Music Therapy help in Autism?” in Empirical Musicology Review, University of Biefeld, Germany. [12]Peretz, I (2001), “Listen to the brain: a biological perspective on musical emotions”. In P. N. Juslin & J. A. Sloboda (Ed.), Music and Emotion, Theory and Research. Oxford University Press. Advances in Manufacturing and Mechanical Engineering 10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMM.393 Study on Social Interaction between Children with Autism and Humanoid Robot NAO 10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMM.393.573 